FIREWALL.
In computing, a firewall is a network security system that monitors and controls incoming and outgoing network traffic based on predetermined security rules.[1][2] A firewall typically establishes a barrier between a trusted network and an untrusted network, such as the Internet.[3]

History
The term firewall originally referred to a wall intended to confine a fire within a line of adjacent buildings.[4] Later uses refer to similar structures, such as the metal sheet separating the engine compartment of a vehicle or aircraft from the passenger compartment. The term was applied in the 1980s to network technology[5] that emerged when the Internet was fairly new in terms of its global use and connectivity.[6] The predecessors to firewalls for network security were routers used in the 1980s. Because they already segregated networks, routers could apply filtering to packets crossing them.[7]

Before it was used in real-life computing, the term appeared in the 1983 computer-hacking movie WarGames, and possibly inspired its later use.[8]

One of the earliest commercially successful firewall and network address translation (NAT) products was the PIX (Private Internet eXchange) Firewall, invented in 1994 by Network Translation Inc., a startup founded and run by John Mayes. The PIX Firewall technology was coded by Brantley Coile as a consultant software developer.[9] Recognizing the emerging IPv4 address depletion problem, they designed the PIX to enable organizations to securely connect private networks to the public internet using a limited number of registered IP addresses. The innovative PIX solution quickly gained industry acclaim, earning the prestigious "Hot Product of the Year" award from Data Communications Magazine in January 1995. Cisco Systems, seeking to expand into the rapidly growing network security market, subsequently acquired Network Translation Inc. in November 1995 to obtain the rights to the PIX technology. The PIX became one of Cisco's flagship firewall product lines before eventually being succeeded by the Adaptive Security Appliance (ASA) platform introduced in 2005.

Types of firewall
See also: Computer security and Comparison of firewalls
Firewalls are categorized as a network-based or a host-based system. Network-based firewalls are positioned between two or more networks, typically between the local area network (LAN) and wide area network (WAN),[10] their basic function being to control the flow of data between connected networks. They are either a software appliance running on general-purpose hardware, a hardware appliance running on special-purpose hardware, or a virtual appliance running on a virtual host controlled by a hypervisor. Firewall appliances may also offer non-firewall functionality, such as DHCP[11][12] or VPN[13] services. Host-based firewalls are deployed directly on the host itself to control network traffic or other computing resources.[14][15] This can be a daemon or service as a part of the operating system or an agent application for protection.
